Add Mappers' Report: Fall news post (#4494)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2020-19-11-mappers-report-september-october.md

- **[Ranking Criteria Changes](#rc-changes)**
- **[Within the Beatmap Nominators and NAT](#within-bn-nat)**
- **[Mappers' Showcase](#mappers-showcase)**
- **[Mapping Contests](#mapping-contests)**
- **[Around the Community](#around-community)**
- **[Conclusion](#conclusion)**

## <a id="rc-changes"></a>Ranking Criteria Changes

As every month, we're here to show you the latest changes made to the ranking criteria!

### All Modes

- **[Unofficial cuts/mixes must be specified](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/917043)**: This rule aims to add new metadata standardization rules so that it's easier to identify unofficial cuts of songs.
- **[Clarify the usage of hybrid set custom difficulty names](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1136261)**: This change aims to add clarity to the existing rule on handling custom difficulty names in mapsets with multiple modes.
- **[Cleaning up the unmapped audio guideline](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/996498)**: This rule has been adjusted a bit with some discussion along with being moved to a guideline as there are clear exceptions stated in it, making it more suitable as a guideline.

### osu!catch

> - **[Rewording of the current spinner rules](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1144293)**: This rule change has the goal of allowing for innovative spinner patterns 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Rewording of the current spinner rules](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1144293)**: This rule change has the goal of allowing for innovative spinner patterns.
```

### osu!mania

> - **[Remove all "Additional Guidelines if Normal/Hard is used as lowest difficulty](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1178291)**: This guideline change removes all additional guidelines, should a Normal or a Hard be used as lowest difficulty in a osu!mania spread. 

Reviewer: orphaned quote mark? `"Additional Guidelines`

Head over to the [Beatmap Nominator website](https://bn.mappersguild.com) and apply today!

### BN Departures

- **osu!:** [Venix](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5999631), [Trynna](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2652951), [[Karcher] 2](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9892196), [NeKroMan4ik](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11387664), [Ryuusei Aika](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7777875), [Fall](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4800816) & [Nikakis](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4351739)
- **osu!taiko:** [Roger](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1538223),  [tasuke912](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2774767), [Ulqui](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1263669) & [incandescence](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6256027)
- **osu!catch:** [wonjae](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5032045), [Sinnoh](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4236057), [Bunnrei](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/829284) & [Baron](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10286499)
- **osu!mania:** [Keiga](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6866022), [Garalulu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/757783),  [Kamuy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7439226),  [Muse Dash](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/13695676) & [Kawawa](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4647754)

### NAT Additions

> A star, shining brighter than the sun has ascended from the Beatmap Nominators and is shining now in a scary red color on the osu! sky, [hypercyte](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9155377) is the newest addition to the Nomination Assessment Team! After two years of work in the Beatmap Nominators, he will now support the osu! NAT with the evaluation of applications and Beatmap Nominators, to ensure a constant flow of new additions to the BNG.
> So once more: Welcome hypercyte!

Reviewer 2: iirc, having the lines like this will put them into a single paragraph. If you meant to have them be two separate lines, then it needs to be either:
```suggestion
A star, shining brighter than the sun has ascended from the Beatmap Nominators and is shining now in a scary red color on the osu! sky, [hypercyte](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9155377) is the newest addition to the Nomination Assessment Team! After two years of work in the Beatmap Nominators, he will now support the osu! NAT with the evaluation of applications and Beatmap Nominators, to ensure a constant flow of new additions to the BNG.

So once more: Welcome hypercyte!
```

Reviewer 2: or
```suggestion
A star, shining brighter than the sun has ascended from the Beatmap Nominators and is shining now in a scary red color on the osu! sky, [hypercyte](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9155377) is the newest addition to the Nomination Assessment Team! After two years of work in the Beatmap Nominators, he will now support the osu! NAT with the evaluation of applications and Beatmap Nominators, to ensure a constant flow of new additions to the BNG.\
So once more: Welcome hypercyte!
```

Reviewer 2: otherwise, just put them in as a single paragraph
```suggestion
A star, shining brighter than the sun has ascended from the Beatmap Nominators and is shining now in a scary red color on the osu! sky, [hypercyte](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9155377) is the newest addition to the Nomination Assessment Team! After two years of work in the Beatmap Nominators, he will now support the osu! NAT with the evaluation of applications and Beatmap Nominators, to ensure a constant flow of new additions to the BNG. So once more: Welcome hypercyte!
```

### Beatmap Nominator Expectations

> As of 2nd of October, some set of expectations were outlined for Beatmap Nominators, and is to be treated as an extension to the BN rules. These expectations cover a variety of points to help keep the ever-growing group of Beatmap Nominators at a good standard!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of October 2nd, some set of expectations were outlined for Beatmap Nominators, and is to be treated as an extension to the BN rules. These expectations cover a variety of points to help keep the ever-growing group of Beatmap Nominators at a good standard!
```

The expectations can be found [here](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Expectations).

### Changes in handling of hybrid beatmapsets

Hybrid map sets were always a grey area when it comes to nominations. They needed only two nominations in the past, just as single game mode map sets. This has changed as of the 2nd October. Now every map set needs **two nominations per game mode**. For example:
If you have a hybrid map set with osu!mania and osu!taiko, it will now need a total of **4** nominations. 

This is just a temporary fix until we have a better system going live. (The devs are working on it already!)

First steps toward this were already made. Beatmap Nominators are now divided into game mode specific user groups! You can see which game mode a nominator belongs to on their user page. Right next to the BN Symbol, their game mode gets displayed now! 

So stay tuned, more changes are coming soon! 

## <a id="mappers-showcase"></a>Mappers' Showcase

> As with every issue of the Mappers' Report we want to show you more unknown mappers which deserve some spotlight for their maps! And this double issue is no exception. This time we have osu!taiko and osu!catch for you! So let's dive right into it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with every issue of the Mappers' Report we want to show you more unknown mappers which deserve some spotlight for their maps! And this double issue is no exception. This time we have osu!taiko and osu!catch for you! So let's dive right into it.
```

(or an exclamation point if you prefer, just some sentence stopper)

> Huge thanks to [Capu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2474015) & [radar](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7131099) for covering osu!taiko and [Jemzuu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7890134) & [autofanboy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/636114)  for osu!catch!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Huge thanks to [Capu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2474015) & [radar](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7131099) for covering osu!taiko and [Jemzuu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7890134) & [autofanboy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/636114) for osu!catch!
```

Another map to highlight is his rendition of [Fallujah - Venom Upon the Blade](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1176016#taiko/2452862), another well crafted streamy 240BPM map with a really tough outro that's sure to bring a fun challenge to anyone capable of bashing drums at this level!

I speak for many people when I say we are looking forward to seeing Heaxys develop as a mapper and bring more exquisite metal maps to the ranked section!

### gaston_2199 (osu!taiko)

While definitely not a new face to the ranked section, [gaston_2199](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5938161) is a highly underrated mapper whose name is rarely brought up in conversations, even though they truly deserve it! With [their first ranked map](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/519474#taiko/1103553) ranked back in 2016, where they got credited for their nice variations in such a variety-lacking drum'n'bass song!

> Not only does gaston_2199 like to map DnB, but they also recently got their hands onto something more technical. [Onis Keyboard](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1176086#taiko/2453006) by the artist pm04034 is a pretty big set, offering 7 difficulties for players of all levels. The top diff being especially interesting, due to the nature of the song, which offers many rhythmic changes and a bit variety of snappings that all got implemented in a very clean style.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Not only does gaston\_2199 like to map DnB, but they also recently got their hands on something more technical. [Onis Keyboard](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1176086#taiko/2453006) by the artist pm04034 is a pretty big set, offering 7 difficulties for players of all levels. The top diff being especially interesting, due to the nature of the song, which offers many rhythmic changes and a bit variety of snappings that all got implemented in a very clean style.
```
escaping & correct preposition usage

> The volume control is also something that gaston_2199 never misses to play around with, which is something that is often overlooked. Complex snaps, nicely playable and some SV changes every now and then form a very engaging and fun to play map! We hope we never have to miss gaston_2199 in the ranked section, as they keep a very high quality throughout all the years of their activity. Leave them a nice comment and go enjoy their maps if you haven't already!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The volume control is also something that gaston\_2199 never misses to play around with, which is something that is often overlooked. Complex snaps, nicely playable and some SV changes every now and then form a very engaging and fun to play map! We hope we never have to miss gaston\_2199 in the ranked section, as they keep a very high quality throughout all the years of their activity. Leave them a nice comment and go enjoy their maps if you haven't already!
```
escaping

### -MomoX (osu!catch)

> [-MomoX](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2150415) is a promising osu!catch mapper in the Philippines. Starting off his mapping career since 2018, -MomoX has a solid understanding of mapping concepts, techniques and musical knowledge. As a high-tier fruit catcher, -MomoX has been incorporating innovative patterns and difficulty settings into his renditions to test on players' reading, speed and stamina.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[-MomoX](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2150415) is a promising osu!catch mapper from the Philippines. Starting off with his mapping career in 2018, -MomoX has a solid understanding of mapping concepts, techniques, and musical knowledge. As a high-tier fruit catcher, -MomoX has been incorporating innovative patterns and difficulty settings into his renditions to test players' reading, speed, and stamina.
```
'from' suits better
a preposition should follow the phrasal verb 'start off' afaik
'since' usage looks ungrammatical here, doesn't fit
the preposition 'on' is redundant here

> In terms of mapping style, -MomoX is a slider enthusiast who loves to emphasize strong beats by hyperdash sliders. He is capable of maneuvering such gimmicks consistently without breaking the flow. Prime example would be [rejection - Signal feat. Such](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1129636#fruits/2359821), his recently ranked marathon. Hereby I also introduce his slider hell map [Halozy - Kikoku Doukoku Jigokuraku](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/990511#fruits/2071833), which features a flurry of droplets by using high slider tick rate to design odd-shaped sliders.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In terms of mapping style, -MomoX is a slider enthusiast who loves to emphasize strong beats via hyperdash sliders. He is capable of maneuvering such gimmicks consistently without breaking the flow. A prime example would be [rejection - Signal feat. Such](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1129636#fruits/2359821), his recently ranked marathon. Hereby I also introduce his slider hell map [Halozy - Kikoku Doukoku Jigokuraku](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/990511#fruits/2071833), which features a flurry of droplets by using a high slider tick rate to design odd-shaped sliders.
```
not sure but 'via' sounded better to me
seems like an article is needed for those two

### -Joakh (osu!catch)

A rising star in the osu!catch mapping scene, [-Joakh](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7946084) is a newer mapper that mostly fonds of eroge music! His mapping style is mainly clean and consistency-based showing that he clearly knows what he's doing! With the high activity of map production and the presence they've been parading to the mapping community, he certainly deserves recognition!

His recent ranked map, being his second, [Suzuyu - Euphorium](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1254692#fruits/2607602) features a simple yet engrossing finesse through the apt variation of flow and patterning, as well as the perfect coherence attention to the music. Not only does he convey his fixation to eroge, [M2U feat. Guriri - Marigold (VIP Remix)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1257779#fruits/2614247) evinces that -Joakh can project technical mapping fashion as well! Showcasing peculiar stream shapes and diverse flow usage, it is a must-see for fruit catchers!

> As we all know, eroge mappers are destined for greatness! With more time and experience, -Joakh can definitely be one of the top mappers in osu!catch! Something that is worth mentioning would also be his capability of mapping high bpm songs such as his take on [UNDEAD CORPORATION - The Empress scream off ver](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1285068#fruits/2668183). We hope to see more of -Joakh's maps and hopefully his motivation further grows as he is unquestionably a very promising mapper!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As we all know, eroge mappers are destined for greatness! With more time and experience, -Joakh can definitely be one of the top mappers in osu!catch! Something worth mentioning would also be his capability of mapping high bpm songs such as his take on [UNDEAD CORPORATION - The Empress scream off ver](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1285068#fruits/2668183). We hope to see more of -Joakh's maps and hopefully, his motivation further grows as he is unquestionably a very promising mapper!
```
'that is' is redundant

## <a id="mapping-contests"></a>Mapping Contests

Did someone ask for contests? No? Ahh well, you get them anyways! As always we inform you about any interesting mapping related contests going on. Even if you do not plan to participate in them, you might want to check out if any of them has an open voting phase going on! Don't forget: Every vote counts!

> And don't forget. Should you have any interesting contest planned or know about, let us know! We would love to give them more attention in our news post!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And don't forget. Should you have any interesting contests planned or know about, let us know! We would love to give them more attention in our news post!
```
would go with the plural form here

### PDC2020

> Good news! The classic **Pending Cup** mapping contest is back for another round and currently accepting submissions! Time is tight though, as the current deadline for submission is **November 8th**. If you were thinking of entering but forgot to submit, take this as a reminder to do so - and if this is your first time hearing about it, maybe try it out and see how it goes! The Pending Cup has always been a source of awesome maps each year, and we expect this year will be no different. So even if you don't want to enter, be sure to stay tuned to see who comes out on top! You can find detailed information about PDC 2020 in its [dedicated forum thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1155108).

Reviewer 3: this looks outdated, deadlines must have been passed by now already

### Monthly Beatmapping Contest

> The Monthly Beatmapping Contest series is continuing as strongly as ever, albeit with some changse, but also with some awesome results to share! Starting with MBC #8, the contest has changed to a judge-based format. Where before screeners would pick maps for the community to vote on, now screeners function the same but the final vote comes down to a panel of judges with detailed impressions and scoring. For MBC #9 the formula was further mixed up by making the contest have a **theme** instead of a **restriction**. With these changes we get to see an ever evolving regular contest format to stay excited about!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Monthly Beatmapping Contest series is continuing as strongly as ever, albeit with some changes, but also with some awesome results to share! Starting with MBC \#8, the contest has changed to a judge-based format. Where before screeners would pick maps for the community to vote on, now screeners function the same but the final vote comes down to a panel of judges with detailed impressions and scoring. For MBC \#9 the formula was further mixed up by making the contest have a **theme** instead of a **restriction**. With these changes, we get to see an ever-evolving regular contest format to stay excited about!
```
fix typo & escaping
add a hyphen to properly form a compound adjective

> For MBC #8 the restriction was that sliders could not be used, and [Mao](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2204515)'s entry of [Silentroom - NULCTRL](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1266008#osu/2631203) with its excellent use of circles, **circle size 7**, and screen-usage based patterning won over the judge's hearts. He has now earned enough points in MBC for a tier 2 profile badge, and is all that much closer to attaining the coveted title of elite mapper! Well deserved!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For MBC \#8 the restriction was that sliders could not be used, and [Mao](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2204515)'s entry of [Silentroom - NULCTRL](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1266008#osu/2631203) with its excellent use of circles, **circle size 7**, and screen-usage based patterning won over the judge's hearts. He has now earned enough points in MBC for a tier 2 profile badge, and is all that much closer to attaining the coveted title of elite mapper! Well deserved!
```
escaping

> In MBC #9 the theme was that every object must overlap visible with another one. With its results mapper [xbopost](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6842421) came in first place with his entry of [PUP - See You At Your Funeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1289138#osu/2676185) which took the theme well to heart and built a unique and interesting map and gameplay experience that you should be sure to check out! That's not all though, as this is xboposts' **third** time coming in first place in MBC and they have now earned the esteemed title of **Elite Mapper**! It's certainly well deserved, with each of their entries providing well built and interesting experiences that make excellent use of the challenges MBC provides. They are certainly a mapper to keep up with in the future as well!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In MBC \#9 the theme was that every object must overlap visible with another one. With its results mapper [xbopost](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6842421) came in first place with his entry of [PUP - See You At Your Funeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1289138#osu/2676185) which took the theme well to heart and built a unique and interesting map and gameplay experience that you should be sure to check out! That's not all though, as this is xboposts' **third** time coming in first place in MBC and they have now earned the esteemed title of **Elite Mapper**! It's certainly well deserved, with each of their entries providing well built and interesting experiences that make excellent use of the challenges MBC provides. They are certainly a mapper to keep up with in the future as well!
```
escaping

### osu! Beatmapping World Championship 2020

> After 5 fast months, the osu! Beatmapping World Championship 2020 has come to an end. It's difficult to express just how amazing of a project and competition it was to watch, and each team brought their best selves - resulting in some of the closest rounds of the competition right at the end! For full details on the journey, scoring, and more, be sure to check out the [dedicated conclusion newspost](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2020-10-22-beatmapping-world-championship-2020-concludes) .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After 5 fast months, the osu! Beatmapping World Championship 2020 has come to an end. It's difficult to express just how amazing of a project and competition it was to watch, and each team brought their best selves - resulting in some of the closest rounds of the competition right at the end! For full details on the journey, scoring, and more, be sure to check out the [dedicated conclusion newspost](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2020-10-22-beatmapping-world-championship-2020-concludes).
```
unless the space was intentional for reasons I don't know about

> The final results, in a simplified form are as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The final results, in a simplified form, are as follows:
```

#### Finals

> | Team 1 | | | Team 2 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Team 1 |  |  | Team 2 |
```

| --: | :-: | :-: | :-- |
| ![](/wiki/shared/flag/AR.gif) Argentina | 3 | **4** | **United Kingdom** ![](/wiki/shared/flag/GB.gif) |

#### Third Place

> | Team 1 | | | Team 2 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Team 1 |  |  | Team 2 |
```

| --: | :-: | :-: | :-- |
| ![](/wiki/shared/flag/BR.gif) **Brazil** | **4** | 3 | Russian Federation ![](/wiki/shared/flag/RU.gif) |

Congratulations to everyone!

## <a id="around-community"></a>Around the Community

> Hello! We're back with the latest segment of around the community! This time we have two main spotlights: the return of the annual christmas queue, as well as a bunch of awesome guides that have been put out recently! Should you have something worth including that isn't here already, be sure to let [Feerum](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4815717) or [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323) know about it! We're happy to give it more attention in our news post!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hello! We're back with the latest segment of Around the Community! This time we have two main spotlights: the return of the annual Christmas Queue, as well as a bunch of awesome guides that have been put out recently! Should you have something worth including that isn't here already, be sure to let [Feerum](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4815717) or [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323) know about it! We're happy to give it more attention in our news post!
```
'Around the Community' sounds like a proper noun, hence the capitalization
the same thing can also be considered for the 'annual Christmas Queue'

### Christmas Queue 2020

> The time honored Christmas Queue is back for its 10th year running! The Christmas Queue is a collective community effort to help mod and rank beatmaps related to the holiday and winter season. Now with a discord server and website to help keep the project organized, the organizers hope to help bring as much holiday cheer to the osu! mapping community as possible. Like before, in order to make this a great success again, the Christmas Queue is in need of motivated individuals to help push things forward. If you are a modder or mapper interested in contributing to this holiday event, be sure to check it out!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The time-honored Christmas Queue is back for its 10th year running! The Christmas Queue is a collective community effort to help mod and rank beatmaps related to the holiday and winter season. Now with a discord server and website to help keep the project organized, the organizers hope to help bring as much holiday cheer to the osu! mapping community as possible. Like before, in order to make this a great success again, the Christmas Queue is in need of motivated individuals to help push things forward. If you are a modder or mapper interested in contributing to this holiday event, be sure to check it out!
```

The next is a pair of recent videos from long time mapper and Beatmap Nominator [Sonnyc](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11771). The first, [Making Symmetric Sliders](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nYkMFvq4ZLU) serves to quickly show you how to make symmetrical sliders quickly. Even if you don't map symmetrically, knowing how to make balanced sliders to manipulate later can be hugely helpful. The second, [Increasing Mapping Speed](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sMKJ9H-qGg0) goes over an experience nearly every mapper has had - mapping slowly at first, and then later how to improve on putting your ideas out there quickly. Other videos on Sonnyc's channel can be super helpful guides to mappers new and old alike, so be sure to check them out!

> Moving away from motivation, time taken, and visuals, we have a [guide all about hitsounding](https://hackmd.io/@Net0/HitsoundsGuide) by [Net0](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5099768)! This guide about hitsounds is incredibly in depth, going all the way from how to name your files to theory, choosing samples, using the editor, and how hitsounding relates back to actual instruments in the songs we love to map and play. If you've ever found hitsounding beatmaps to be intimidating, this guide will definitely help to clear up a lot of questions about it you may have.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moving away from motivation, time taken, and visuals, we have a [guide all about hitsounding](https://hackmd.io/@Net0/HitsoundsGuide) by [Net0](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5099768)! This guide about hitsounds is incredibly in-depth, going all the way from how to name your files to theory, choosing samples, using the editor, and how hitsounding relates back to actual instruments in the songs we love to map and play. If you've ever found hitsounding beatmaps to be intimidating, this guide will definitely help to clear up a lot of questions about it you may have.
```
'time taken' looks a little weird there, not sure if I understood what that means

> Finally, on a bit of a different flavor we have a guide not related to mapping - but modding! The [Modding Mentorship](https://sites.google.com/view/modding-guide/home?authuser=0) guide written by long time mapper and nominator [Cheri](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5226970) seeks to help give guidance on how to mod and what to look out for from the ground up. This guide covers everything from ranking criteria, to rhythm, to spacing, to low difficulties, and spread. It covers quite a lot! In depth modding guides of this kind are a bit more rare and left to people often learning on their own, so having a fully fleshed out guide like this will definitely be really helpful to aspiring and semi-experienced modders alike.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, on a bit of a different flavor we have a guide not related to mapping - but modding! The [Modding Mentorship Guide](https://sites.google.com/view/modding-guide/home?authuser=0) written by long time mapper and nominator [Cheri](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5226970) seeks to help give guidance on how to mod and what to look out for from the ground up. This guide covers everything from ranking criteria, to rhythm, to spacing, to low difficulties, and spread. It covers quite a lot! In-depth modding guides of this kind are a bit rarer and left to people often learning on their own, so having a fully fleshed out guide like this will definitely be really helpful to aspiring and semi-experienced modders alike.
```
'guide' can be included in the hyperlink, since 'Modding Mentorship' does not mean anything alone

> Finally, on a bit of a different flavor we have a guide not related to mapping - but modding! The [Modding Mentorship](https://sites.google.com/view/modding-guide/home?authuser=0) guide written by long time mapper and nominator [Cheri](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5226970) seeks to help give guidance on how to mod and what to look out for from the ground up. This guide covers everything from ranking criteria, to rhythm, to spacing, to low difficulties, and spread. It covers quite a lot! In depth modding guides of this kind are a bit more rare and left to people often learning on their own, so having a fully fleshed out guide like this will definitely be really helpful to aspiring and semi-experienced modders alike. 

Reviewer: is `?authuser=0` necessary? urls should be as clean as possible imo and it seems to work without it (https://sites.google.com/view/modding-guide/home)

<a id="conclusion"></a>

---

> And that concludes this issue of the Mappers' Report! Quite a lot to read again, but we are happy should you have survived until here.
> As you know, our news post is completely community driven by volunteers from writing until the final checks before the release. Therefore we always welcome another pair of hands for help. Should you be interested in helping us out to get the future issues released more in time, stop by at the #mappers-report channel on the [osu! Community Discord](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And that concludes this issue of the Mappers' Report! Quite a lot to read again, but we are happy should you have survived until here.

As you know, our news post is completely community driven by volunteers from writing until the final checks before the release. Therefore we always welcome another pair of hands for help. Should you be interested in helping us out to get the future issues released more in time, stop by at the #mappers-report channel on the [osu! Community Discord](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H)
```

### Haexys (osu!taiko)

A newer mapper with a lot of promise hailing from France, [Heaxys](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5671417) brings his taste for metal music to life in a way that not many other mappers can. His first ranked map ["Devour Me, Colossus (Part I): Blackholes"](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1117322#taiko/2333970) from the Featured Artist [Ne Obliviscaris](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/86) is 12 minutes and 31 seconds of extremely well-crafted mapping, featuring comfortable and well-fitting patterns with slider velocities that accompany them very well. This is overall an amazing experience, however, his single ranked map is not the only quality map he's brought to the table.

Another map to highlight is his rendition of [Fallujah - Venom Upon the Blade](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1176016#taiko/2452862), another well crafted streamy 240BPM map with a really tough outro that's sure to bring a fun challenge to anyone capable of bashing drums at this level!

> I speak for many people when I say we are looking forward to seeing Heaxys develop as a mapper and bring more exquisite metal maps to the ranked section!

Author: The Mappers' Showcase is written by two people per game mode, but everyone writes one mapper. That means "I" is technically correct

The volume control is also something that gaston\_2199 never misses to play around with, which is something that is often overlooked. Complex snaps, nicely playable and some SV changes every now and then form a very engaging and fun to play map! We hope we never have to miss gaston\_2199 in the ranked section, as they keep a very high quality throughout all the years of their activity. Leave them a nice comment and go enjoy their maps if you haven't already!

### -MomoX (osu!catch)

[-MomoX](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2150415) is a promising osu!catch mapper from the Philippines. Starting off with his mapping career in 2018, -MomoX has a solid understanding of mapping concepts, techniques, and musical knowledge. As a high-tier fruit catcher, -MomoX has been incorporating innovative patterns and difficulty settings into his renditions to test players' reading, speed, and stamina.

> In terms of mapping style, -MomoX is a slider enthusiast who loves to emphasize strong beats via hyperdash sliders. He is capable of maneuvering such gimmicks consistently without breaking the flow. A prime example would be [rejection - Signal feat. Such](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1129636#fruits/2359821), his recently ranked marathon. Hereby I also introduce his slider hell map [Halozy - Kikoku Doukoku Jigokuraku](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/990511#fruits/2071833), which features a flurry of droplets by using a high slider tick rate to design odd-shaped sliders.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In terms of mapping style, -MomoX is a slider enthusiast who loves to emphasize strong beats via hyperdash sliders. He is capable of maneuvering such gimmicks consistently without breaking the flow. A prime example would be [rejection - Signal feat. Such](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1129636#fruits/2359821), his recently ranked marathon. It's also worth checking out his slider hell map [Halozy - Kikoku Doukoku Jigokuraku](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/990511#fruits/2071833), which features a flurry of droplets by using a high slider tick rate to design odd-shaped sliders.
```
"hereby" doesnt make sense here

Despite having vast experience in creating challenging maps, -MomoX is adept at finishing spreads with easier difficulties. His Cup in [nanobii - Rainbow Road](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1234892#fruits/2571138) uses horizontal sliders and curved sliders extensively to match the main beats while offering leniency towards beginners. With his recent mapping activity and welcoming attitude towards feedback, more projects should be coming from -MomoX!

### -Joakh (osu!catch)

> A rising star in the osu!catch mapping scene, [-Joakh](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7946084) is a newer mapper that mostly fonds of eroge music! His mapping style is mainly clean and consistency-based showing that he clearly knows what he's doing! With the high activity of map production and the presence they've been parading to the mapping community, he certainly deserves recognition!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A rising star in the osu!catch mapping scene, [-Joakh](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7946084) is a newer mapper that's mostly fond of eroge music! His mapping style is mainly clean and consistency-based showing that he clearly knows what he's doing! With the high activity of map production and the presence they've been parading to the mapping community, he certainly deserves recognition!
```

> His recent ranked map, being his second, [Suzuyu - Euphorium](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1254692#fruits/2607602) features a simple yet engrossing finesse through the apt variation of flow and patterning, as well as the perfect coherence attention to the music. Not only does he convey his fixation to eroge, [M2U feat. Guriri - Marigold (VIP Remix)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1257779#fruits/2614247) evinces that -Joakh can project technical mapping fashion as well! Showcasing peculiar stream shapes and diverse flow usage, it is a must-see for fruit catchers!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
His second ranked map [Suzuyu - Euphorium](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1254692#fruits/2607602) features a simple yet engrossing finesse through the apt variation of flow and patterning, as well as the perfect coherence attention to the music. Not only does he convey his fixation to eroge, [M2U feat. Guriri - Marigold (VIP Remix)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1257779#fruits/2614247) evinces that -Joakh can project technical mapping fashion as well! Showcasing peculiar stream shapes and diverse flow usage, it is a must-see for fruit catchers!
```
reads really weirdly

And don't forget. Should you have any interesting contests planned or know about, let us know! We would love to give them more attention in our news post!

### PDC2020

Good news! The classic **Pending Cup** mapping contest is back for another round and currently accepting submissions! Time is tight though, as the current deadline for submission is **November 8th**. If you were thinking of entering but forgot to submit, take this as a reminder to do so - and if this is your first time hearing about it, maybe try it out and see how it goes! The Pending Cup has always been a source of awesome maps each year, and we expect this year will be no different. So even if you don't want to enter, be sure to stay tuned to see who comes out on top! You can find detailed information about PDC 2020 in its [dedicated forum thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1155108).

### Monthly Beatmapping Contest

> The Monthly Beatmapping Contest series is continuing as strongly as ever, albeit with some changes, but also with some awesome results to share! Starting with MBC \#8, the contest has changed to a judge-based format. Where before screeners would pick maps for the community to vote on, now screeners function the same but the final vote comes down to a panel of judges with detailed impressions and scoring. For MBC \#9 the formula was further mixed up by making the contest have a **theme** instead of a **restriction**. With these changes, we get to see an ever-evolving regular contest format to stay excited about!

Reviewer 4: judging started contest 6
mbc is on hiatus til next year, maybe mention that somewhere?

For MBC \#8 the restriction was that sliders could not be used, and [Mao](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2204515)'s entry of [Silentroom - NULCTRL](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1266008#osu/2631203) with its excellent use of circles, **circle size 7**, and screen-usage based patterning won over the judge's hearts. He has now earned enough points in MBC for a tier 2 profile badge, and is all that much closer to attaining the coveted title of elite mapper! Well deserved!

> In MBC \#9 the theme was that every object must overlap visible with another one. With its results mapper [xbopost](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6842421) came in first place with his entry of [PUP - See You At Your Funeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1289138#osu/2676185) which took the theme well to heart and built a unique and interesting map and gameplay experience that you should be sure to check out! That's not all though, as this is xboposts' **third** time coming in first place in MBC and they have now earned the esteemed title of **Elite Mapper**! It's certainly well deserved, with each of their entries providing well built and interesting experiences that make excellent use of the challenges MBC provides. They are certainly a mapper to keep up with in the future as well!

Reviewer 4: "visible" in first sentence should be deleted?
also last 2 sentences seem like they should be on a new line?

Finally, on a bit of a different flavor we have a guide not related to mapping - but modding! The [Modding Mentorship Guide](https://sites.google.com/view/modding-guide/home?authuser=0) written by long time mapper and nominator [Cheri](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5226970) seeks to help give guidance on how to mod and what to look out for from the ground up. This guide covers everything from ranking criteria, to rhythm, to spacing, to low difficulties, and spread. It covers quite a lot! In-depth modding guides of this kind are a bit rarer and left to people often learning on their own, so having a fully fleshed out guide like this will definitely be really helpful to aspiring and semi-experienced modders alike.

<a id="conclusion"></a>

---

And that concludes this issue of the Mappers' Report! Quite a lot to read again, but we are happy should you have survived until here.

> As you know, our news post is completely community driven by volunteers from writing until the final checks before the release. Therefore we always welcome another pair of hands for help. Should you be interested in helping us out to get the future issues released more in time, stop by at the #mappers-report channel on the [osu! Community Discord](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As you know, our news post is completely community driven by volunteers from writing until the final checks before the release. Therefore we always welcome another pair of hands for help. Should you be interested in helping us out to get the future issues released more on time, stop by at the `#mappers-report` channel on the [osu! Community Discord](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H)
```
